rbdl_luamodel - load RBDL models from Lua files
Copyright (c) 2012 Martin Felis <martin.felis@iwr.uni-heidelberg.de>

DESCRIPTION

rbdl_luamodel allows to load models that are specified as Lua scripts. Lua
is an open-source light-weight scripting language (http://www.lua.org).

This addon comes with a standalone utility that can show various
information of a lua model such as degree of freedom overview or model
hierarchy. It is located in addons/luamodel/rbdl_luamodel_test. Use the -h
switch to see available options.

Note: this addon is not even remotely as thoroughly tested as the RBDL
itself so please use it with some suspicion.

DOCUMENTATION

Models have to be specified as a specially formatted Lua table which must
be returned by the script, i.e. if the model is specified in the table
"model = { ... }" the script has to return this when executed. Within the
returned table, rbdl_luamodel goes through the table "frames" and builds
the model from the individual Frame Information Tables (see further down
for more information about those).

A valid file could look like this:

--
model = { 
  frames = {
    {
      <frame 1 information table>
    },
    {
      <frame 2 information table>
    }
  }
}

return model
--

Note: the table frames must contain all Frame Information Tables as a list
and individual tables must *not* be specified with a key, i.e.
  frames = {
    some_frame = {
      ...
    },
    {
      ..
    }
  }
is not possible!

FRAME INFORMATION TABLE

The Frame Information Table is searched for values needed to call
Model::AddBody(). The following fields are used by rbdl_luamodel
(everything else is ignored):

  name (required, type: string):
    Name of the body that is being added. This name must be unique.

  parent_frame (required, type: string):

    If the value is "BASE" the parent frame of this body is assumed to be
    the base coordinate system, otherwise it must be the exact same string
    as was used for the "name"-field of the parent frame.
  
  body (optional, type: table)
    Specification of the dynamical parameters of the body. It uses the
    values (if existing):
      mass (scalar value, default 0.),
      com (3-d vector, default:  (0., 0., 0.))
      inertia (3x3  matrix, default: identity matrix)
    to build create a body.

  joint (optional, type: table)
    Specifies the type of joint, fixed or up to 6 degrees of freedom. Each
    entry in the joint table should be a 6-d that defines the motion
    subspace of a single degree of freedom.

    Default joint type is a fixed joint that attaches the body rigidly to
    its parent.
    
    Examples
      joint_fixed = {}
      joint_translate_x = { {0., 0., 0., 1., 0., 0.} }
      joint_translate_xy = { 
        {0., 0., 0., 1., 0., 0.},
        {0., 0., 0., 0., 1., 0.}
      }
      joint_rotate_zyx = {
        {0., 0., 1., 0., 0., 0.},
        {0., 1., 0., 0., 0., 0.},
        {1., 0., 0., 0., 0., 0.},
      }
      
  joint_frame (optional, type: table)
    Specifies the origin of the joint in the frame of the parent. It uses
    the values (if existing):
      r (3-d vector, default: (0., 0., 0.))
      E (3x3 matrix, default: identity matrix)
    for which r is the translation and E the rotation of the joint frame.

LICENSING

This code is published under the zlib license, however some parts of the
CMake scripts are taken from other projects and are licensed under
different terms.

Full license text:

-------
rbdl_luamodel - load RBDL models from Lua files
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Martin Felis <martin.felis@iwr.uni-heidelberg.de>

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
arising from the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
freely, subject to the following restrictions:

   1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
   claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
   in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
   appreciated but is not required.

   2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
   misrepresented as being the original software.

   3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source
   distribution.
